website/integrations/services/zulip/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with Zulip
sidebar_label: Zulip
---

# Integrate with Zulip

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Zulip

> **Zulip**: Chat for distributed teams. Zulip combines the immediacy of real-time chat with an email threading model.
> With Zulip, you can catch up on important conversations while ignoring irrelevant ones.
>
> -- https://zulip.com

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `zulip.company` is the FQDN of the Zulip instance.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

Create an application in authentik and note the slug, as this will be used later. Create a SAML provider with the following parameters:

- ACS URL: `https://zulip.company/complete/saml/`
- Issuer: `https://authentik.company`
- Service Provider Binding: `Post`
- Signing Keypair: Select any certificate you have.
- Property mappings: Select all Managed mappings.

## Zulip Configuration

Zulip is a Django application and is configured using `/etc/zulip/settings.py`. Only settings that differ
from the defaults are displayed below. Please make sure you have the latest `settings.py` file as more settings
might have been added to defaults since you installed Zulip.

Uncomment `zproject.backends.SAMLAuthBackend` inside the `AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS` parameter to enable SAML support
and fill in the following required configuration.

```
SOCIAL_AUTH_SAML_ORG_INFO = {
    "en-US": {
        "displayname": "authentik Zulip",
        "name": "zulip",
        "url": "{}{}".format("https://", EXTERNAL_HOST),
    },
}

SOCIAL_AUTH_SAML_ENABLED_IDPS: Dict[str, Any] = {
    # idp identifier and settings
    "authentik": {

	    # KEEP OTHER SETTINGS AS DEFAULT OR CONFIGURE THEM ACCORDING TO YOUR PREFERENCES
        "entity_id": "https://authentik.company",
        "url": "https://authentik.company/application/saml/<application slug>/sso/binding/redirect/",
        "display_name": "authentik SAML",
    },
}

```

Place the certificate you associated with the SAML provider in authentik inside the `/etc/zulip/saml/idps` directory.
The certificate file name must match the idp identifier name you set in the configuration (i.e. authentik.crt).

:::note
Remember to restart Zulip.
:::

## Additional Resources

Please refer to the following for further information:

- https://zulip.com/
- https://zulip.readthedocs.io
- https://chat.zulip.org/ (Official public Zulip Chat instance)

Commit message:

website/integrations: all: application/provider -> wizard
Update integrations: Apache Guacamole, ArgoCD, Arube Orchestrator

website/integrations: wmigr + cleanup: work on batch a

website/integrations: all: add note about default values + fix build

try this

Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

Update website/integrations/services/apache-guacamole/index.mdx

Co-authored-by: Tana M Berry <tanamarieberry@yahoo.com>
Signed-off-by: 4d62 <git@sdko.org>

website/integrations: batch-a: fix some stuff and kbd try

website/integrations: freshrss + gatus: cleanup

website/integrations: frappe: cleanup

website/integrations: fortimanager: cleanup

website/integrations: fix build

website/integrations: fortimanager: set more <em>s and <kbd>s

website/integrations: fortimanager: fix build

website/integrations: aws: wow this is taking longer than I imagined

a few scim things i can add back but idk heh

included w/ https://github.com/goauthentik/authentik/pull/12777 now

website/integrations/services/zulip/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with Zulip
sidebar_label: Zulip
---

# Integrate with Zulip

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Zulip

> Zulip is an open-source team chat application that organizes conversations into topic-based streams, enabling more structured and efficient communication compared to traditional linear chat platforms.
>
> -- https://zulip.com

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `zulip.company` is the FQDN of the Zulip instance.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

Create an application in authentik and note the slug, as this will be used later. Create a SAML provider with the following parameters:

- ACS URL: `https://zulip.company/complete/saml/`
- Issuer: `https://authentik.company`
- Service Provider Binding: `Post`
- Signing Keypair: Select any certificate you have.
- Property mappings: Select all Managed mappings.

## Zulip Configuration

Zulip is a Django application and is configured using `/etc/zulip/settings.py`. Only settings that differ
from the defaults are displayed below. Please make sure you have the latest `settings.py` file as more settings
might have been added to defaults since you installed Zulip.

Uncomment `zproject.backends.SAMLAuthBackend` inside the `AUTHENTICATION_BACKENDS` parameter to enable SAML support
and fill in the following required configuration.

```
SOCIAL_AUTH_SAML_ORG_INFO = {
    "en-US": {
        "displayname": "authentik Zulip",
        "name": "zulip",
        "url": "{}{}".format("https://", EXTERNAL_HOST),
    },
}

SOCIAL_AUTH_SAML_ENABLED_IDPS: Dict[str, Any] = {
    # idp identifier and settings
    "authentik": {

	    # KEEP OTHER SETTINGS AS DEFAULT OR CONFIGURE THEM ACCORDING TO YOUR PREFERENCES
        "entity_id": "https://authentik.company",
        "url": "https://authentik.company/application/saml/<application slug>/sso/binding/redirect/",
        "display_name": "authentik SAML",
    },
}

```

Place the certificate you associated with the SAML provider in authentik inside the `/etc/zulip/saml/idps` directory.
The certificate file name must match the idp identifier name you set in the configuration (i.e. authentik.crt).

:::note
Remember to restart Zulip.
:::

## Additional Resources

Please refer to the following for further information:

- https://zulip.com/
- https://zulip.readthedocs.io
- https://chat.zulip.org/ (Official public Zulip Chat instance)
