website/integrations/services/gatus/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Integrate with Gatus
sidebar_label: Gatus
---

import IntegrationsMultilineCodeblock from "@site/src/components/Integrations/IntegrationsCodeblock";

# Integrate with Gatus

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Gatus?

> Gatus is a developer-oriented health dashboard that gives you the ability to monitor your services using HTTP, ICMP, TCP, and even DNS queries as well as evaluate the result of said queries by using a list of conditions on values like the status code, the response time, the certificate expiration, the body and many others. The icing on top is that each of these health checks can be paired with alerting via Slack, Teams, PagerDuty, Discord, Twilio and many more.
>
> -- https://github.com/TwiN/gatus

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `gatus.company` is the FQDN of the Gatus installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation only lists the settings that have been changed from their default values. Please verify your changes carefully to avoid any issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik configuration

To support the integration of Gatus with authentik, you need to create an application/provider pair in authentik.

**Create an application and provider in authentik**

In the authentik Admin Interface, navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click **[Create with Provider](/docs/add-secure-apps/applications/manage_apps#add-new-applications)** to create an application and provider pair. (Alternatively you can create only an application, without a provider, by clicking **Create**.)

- **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings.
- **Choose a Provider type**: select **OAuth2/OpenID Connect** as the provider type.
- **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.
    - Note the **Client ID**,**Client Secret**, and **slug** values because they will be required later.
    - Set a `Strict` redirect URI to <kbd>https://<em>gatus.company</em>/authorization-code/callback</kbd>.
    - Select any available signing key.
- **Configure Bindings** _(optional):_ you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/bindings/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user’s **My applications** page.

## Gatus configuration

To enable OIDC in Gatus, update your `config.yaml` file, typically found at `/config/config.yaml` or the location specified by the `GATUS_CONFIG_PATH` environment variable. Additionally, set the following variables in your `.env` file. If your setup does not support environment variables, you can use hard-coded values, but this is not recommended for security reasons.

:::note
Gatus automatically updates its configuration approximately every 30 seconds. If the changes are not reflected, restart the instance to ensure the changes are applied.
:::

<IntegrationsMultilineCodeblock>
    {`
OIDC_CLIENT_ID=<em>Your Client ID from authentik</em>
OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET=<em>Your Client Secret from authentik</em>
    `}
</IntegrationsMultilineCodeblock>

<IntegrationsMultilineCodeblock>
    {`
security:
    oidc:
        issuer-url: https://<em>authentik.company</em>/application/o/<em>your-slug</em>/
        client-id: $\{OIDC_CLIENT_ID}
        client-secret: $\{OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET}
        redirect-url: https://<em>gatus.company</em>/authorization-code/callback
        scopes: [openid]
`}
</IntegrationsMultilineCodeblock>

## Configuration verification

To confirm that authentik is properly configured with Gatus, click the **Login with SSO** button found on the main page of your Gatus installation. A successful login will redirect you to your status page.

Commit message:

add references to gatus, freshrss, frappe; frappe new authentik config format, freshrss revamp; fix typo in bookstack cfg

website/integrations/services/gatus/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Integrate with Gatus
sidebar_label: Gatus
---

import IntegrationsMultilineCodeblock from "@site/src/components/Integrations/IntegrationsCodeblock";

# Integrate with Gatus

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Gatus?

> Gatus is a developer-oriented health dashboard that gives you the ability to monitor your services using HTTP, ICMP, TCP, and even DNS queries as well as evaluate the result of said queries by using a list of conditions on values like the status code, the response time, the certificate expiration, the body and many others. The icing on top is that each of these health checks can be paired with alerting via Slack, Teams, PagerDuty, Discord, Twilio and many more.
>
> -- https://github.com/TwiN/gatus

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `gatus.company` is the FQDN of the Gatus installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation only lists the settings that have been changed from their default values. Please verify your changes carefully to avoid any issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik configuration

To support the integration of Gatus with authentik, you need to create an application/provider pair in authentik.

**Create an application and provider in authentik**

In the authentik Admin Interface, navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click **[Create with Provider](/docs/add-secure-apps/applications/manage_apps#add-new-applications)** to create an application and provider pair. (Alternatively you can create only an application, without a provider, by clicking **Create**.)

- **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings.
- **Choose a Provider type**: select **OAuth2/OpenID Connect** as the provider type.
- **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.
    - Note the **Client ID**,**Client Secret**, and **slug** values because they will be required later.
    - Set a `Strict` redirect URI to <kbd>https://<em>gatus.company</em>/authorization-code/callback</kbd>.
    - Select any available signing key.
- **Configure Bindings** _(optional):_ you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/bindings/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user’s **My applications** page.

## Gatus configuration

To enable OIDC in Gatus, update your `config.yaml` file, typically found at `/config/config.yaml` or the location specified by the `GATUS_CONFIG_PATH` environment variable. Additionally, set the following variables in your `.env` file. If your setup does not support environment variables, you can use hard-coded values, but this is not recommended for security reasons.

:::note
Gatus automatically updates its configuration approximately every 30 seconds. If the changes are not reflected, restart the instance to ensure the changes are applied.
:::

<IntegrationsMultilineCodeblock>
    {`
OIDC_CLIENT_ID=<em>Your Client ID from authentik</em>
OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET=<em>Your Client Secret from authentik</em>
    `}
</IntegrationsMultilineCodeblock>

<IntegrationsMultilineCodeblock>
    {`
security:
    oidc:
        issuer-url: https://<em>authentik.company</em>/application/o/<em>your-slug</em>/
        client-id: $\{OIDC_CLIENT_ID}
        client-secret: $\{OIDC_CLIENT_SECRET}
        redirect-url: https://<em>gatus.company</em>/authorization-code/callback
        scopes: [openid]
`}
</IntegrationsMultilineCodeblock>

## References

- [Gatus Security documentation for OpenID Connect](https://github.com/TwiN/gatus?tab=readme-ov-file#oidc)

## Configuration verification

To confirm that authentik is properly configured with Gatus, click the **Login with SSO** button found on the main page of your Gatus installation. A successful login should redirect you to your status page.
