website/integrations/services/actual-budget/index.md, before:

---
title: Integrate with Actual Budget
sidebar_label: Actual Budget
---

# Actual Budget

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Actual Budget

> Actual Budget is a web-based financial management software. It helps users track and manage their income, expenses, and budgets in real time. The software compares actual spending with planned budgets to improve financial decisions.
>
> -- https://actualbudget.org/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `actual.company` is the FQDN of the Actual Budget installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik configuration

To support the integration of Actual Budget with authentik, you need to create an application/provider pair in authentik.

**Create an application and provider in authentik**

In the authentik Admin Interface, navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click **[Create with Provider](/docs/add-secure-apps/applications/manage_apps#add-new-applications)** to create an application and provider pair. (Alternatively you can create only an application, without a provider, by clicking **Create**.)

- **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings.
- **Choose a Provider type**: select **OAuth2/OpenID Connect** as the provider type.
- **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.
    - Note the **Client ID**,**Client Secret**, and **slug** values because they will be required later.
    - Set a `Strict` redirect URI to <kbd>https://<em>actual.company</em>/openid/callback/</kbd>.
    - Select any available signing key. Actual Budget only supports the RS256 algorithm. Be aware of this when choosing a signing key.
- **Configure Bindings** _(optional):_ you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/bindings/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user’s **My applications** page.

## Actual Budget configuration

1. Sign in to Actual Budget and select your budget by clicing its name.
2. In the top-left corner, click your budget name to open the dropdown and choose **Settings**.
3. Scroll down and select **Show advanced settings**, then enable **I understand the risks, show experimental features**.
4. Enable **OpenID authentication method**.
5. Scroll up and click **Start using OpenID** under the **Authentication method** section.
6. Fill in the following values:
    - **OpenID Provider**: authentik
    - **OpenID provider URL**: <kbd>https://<em>authentik.company</em>/application/o/<em>your-application-slug</em>/</kbd>
    - **Client ID**: Enter the **Client ID** from authentik
    - **Client Secret**: Enter the **Client Secret** from authentik

:::warning
The first user to log into Actual Budget via OpenID will become the owner and administrator with the highest privileges for the budget. For more information on how to create additional users, see the Note below.
:::

:::info
Users are not created automatically in Actual Budget. The owner must manually add users. To do this, go to **Server online** > **User Directory**, and create users matching their authentik usernames. Then, grant access to the budget via **User Access**.
:::

## Test the login

1. Open a browser and navigate to <kbd>https://<em>actual.company</em>/</kbd>.
2. Select the OpenID login method in the dropdown menu and click **Sign in with OpenID**.
3. You will be redirected to authentik to complete the login process, then back to Actual Budget.
4. If you reach the budget selection page, the integration is successful.

Commit message:

actual budget cfg validation; bookstack upd; cfa add cfg validation; gatus revamp; component support multiline ex: yaml

website/integrations/services/actual-budget/index.md, after:

---
title: Integrate with Actual Budget
sidebar_label: Actual Budget
---

# Actual Budget

<span class="badge badge--secondary">Support level: Community</span>

## What is Actual Budget

> Actual Budget is a web-based financial management software. It helps users track and manage their income, expenses, and budgets in real time. The software compares actual spending with planned budgets to improve financial decisions.
>
> -- https://actualbudget.org/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `actual.company` is the FQDN of the Actual Budget installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik configuration

To support the integration of Actual Budget with authentik, you need to create an application/provider pair in authentik.

**Create an application and provider in authentik**

In the authentik Admin Interface, navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click **[Create with Provider](/docs/add-secure-apps/applications/manage_apps#add-new-applications)** to create an application and provider pair. (Alternatively you can create only an application, without a provider, by clicking **Create**.)

- **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings.
- **Choose a Provider type**: select **OAuth2/OpenID Connect** as the provider type.
- **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.
    - Note the **Client ID**,**Client Secret**, and **slug** values because they will be required later.
    - Set a `Strict` redirect URI to <kbd>https://<em>actual.company</em>/openid/callback/</kbd>.
    - Select any available signing key. Actual Budget only supports the RS256 algorithm. Be aware of this when choosing a signing key.
- **Configure Bindings** _(optional):_ you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/bindings/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user’s **My applications** page.

## Actual Budget configuration

1. Sign in to Actual Budget and select your budget by clicing its name.
2. In the top-left corner, click your budget name to open the dropdown and choose **Settings**.
3. Scroll down and select **Show advanced settings**, then enable **I understand the risks, show experimental features**.
4. Enable **OpenID authentication method**.
5. Scroll up and click **Start using OpenID** under the **Authentication method** section.
6. Fill in the following values:
    - **OpenID Provider**: authentik
    - **OpenID provider URL**: <kbd>https://<em>authentik.company</em>/application/o/<em>your-application-slug</em>/</kbd>
    - **Client ID**: Enter the **Client ID** from authentik
    - **Client Secret**: Enter the **Client Secret** from authentik

:::warning
The first user to log into Actual Budget via OpenID will become the owner and administrator with the highest privileges for the budget. For more information on how to create additional users, see the Note below.
:::

:::info
Users are not created automatically in Actual Budget. The owner must manually add users. To do this, go to **Server online** > **User Directory**, and create users matching their authentik usernames. Then, grant access to the budget via **User Access**.
:::

## Configuration validation

To confirm that authentik is properly configured with Actual Budget, visit your Actual Budget installation, select the OpenID login method from the dropdown menu, and click **Sign in with OpenID**.
